## Meeting - Thursday 2nd September 2021 - (3pm ET)

### Chair
Brent Zundel

### Agenda
- IPR reminder, Agenda Review, and Introductions 
- [Issue Review](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/issues)
- [Proposal Review](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pulls)
- [Compact Cryptographic Data Encoding - Problem statement](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10aHfefNVBrzFOiQ3--Ri7lMzwNqVOYsQqJal17uodvA/edit?usp=sharing) review
- Work item status update

### Attendees
- Brent Zundel
- Orie Steele
- Dave Huseby
- Mike Jones
- Steve Todd
- Jeremie Miller
- Tobias Looker
- Tomislav Markovski
- Andreas Freitag
- Andrew Whitehead
- Srinath Setty

### Notes

#### Introductions
- Tomislav from Trinsic
- Mike Jones from Microsoft
- Christian Paquin formally apart of the Uprove effort
- Seth Back

#### Issue Review
- [BBS Work item missing expected completion time](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/issues/24)
    - Tobias will add esitmated completion time

#### PR Review
- [Adding provenance log proposal](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/8)
    - Need work item owner
- [Adding distributed zkp authentication proposal](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/15)
    - Need work item owner
- [Scalable Revocation Method(s) for Verifiable Credentials](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/20)
    - accepted as work item by the group

#### Work Item status
brief update on each work item
- most have github repos
- some are working on finding good meeting times
- some will be introducing initial drafts soon.