## Meeting - Thursday 24th June 2021 - (3pm ET)

Pre-working group meeting

[Call Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/LhybsMDzZsAy-B3a0dkVaiQQmSlEjCoOHqIt97LPCqxfQgrOhJ-NWZ6eow4itCR_.CUztxECyz2xG0zZ1)

### Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions
2. Discussion about working group scope and focus

### Attendees

- David Waite
- Jeremie Miller
- Tobias Looker
- Daniel Buckner
- Andreas Freitag
- Andrew Whitehead
- Daniel Buckner

### Notes

A general discussion was had on different concepts that are applicable under the working groups charter

#### Possible TOPICS for the group

**SSI cryptographic protocol topics**
- BBS+ (supports the ability for predicate proofs)
- Revocation methods
- Which crypto primitives we should use / we recommend: Curves,etc.

**General cryptographic topics relevant for SSI:**
- JSON Object Signing and Encryption (JOSE)
- Fuzzy encryption
- Use of Pseudonyms (stable ID between holder and verifier -> for a recovery method without correlation)
 
**Education, Description and Definitions:**
- Definitions, glossary and concepts for onboarding and education.
- Focus on good sources and links and explaining what we use in the group an mean
- Group signatures
- Message encryption
- Multi message Signatures
- Zero knowledge Proofs (SNarks, SPARCs,â€¦.)
- Cryptographic Accumulators
- Predicate proofs (membership and non membership proofs)
- Pairing crypto
- Definitions of problems in SSI which we can maybe solve with crypto
- eg. Correlation
- PoV to actual topics
- Different kind of attacks on crypto
- Organise code/security reviews of libraries we use
- Review of crypto papers