## Meeting - Thursday 16th September 2021 - (3pm ET)

### Chair
Tobias

### Agenda
- IPR reminder, Agenda Review, and Introductions 
- [Issue Review](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/issues)
- [Proposal Review](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pulls)
- [Work Item Reports](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/tree/main/work_items)

### Attendees

- Tobias Looker
- Srinath Setty
- Andreas Freitag
- Jeremie Miller
- Brian Richter
- Chris Kelly
- Dave Huseby
- Seth Back
- Tomislav Markovski
- Andrew Whitehead
- Brent Zundel
- Steve Todd


### Notes
#### Issue Review
https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/issues/24

#### PR Review
https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/8
https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/pull/15

#### Work Item status
- [BBS+](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/bbs_signatures.md) - First BBS+ call was Monday, now on the DIF calendar, biweekly call. They also have accepted the input document and are working in a git repo
- [Secure Software suppy chain](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/bof_secure_software_supply_chain.md) - haven't moved forward yet. contact made with LF
- https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/cbb_data_encoding.md - checked out COSE, not sure yet if it will work to expand
- [policy as code](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/cbb_data_encoding.md) - a bunch of stuff is happening behind the scenes
- [service protocol](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/cbb_service_protocol.md) - git cryptography proposed protocol is being re-worked to be more general. Looking at many different protocols and seeing what convergece there is.
- [JWP](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/json_web_proof.md) - had first call, good issues, initial draft needs to be refined to separate the higher-level concepts from the rest. Next meeting is next week, but it isn't on calendar for some reason, checking into that.
- [revocation](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/crypto-wg/blob/main/work_items/revocation_methods_for_verifiable_credentials_.md) - had first call. git repo is set up and we agreed on a method for proceeding. bi-weekly calls on DIF calendar.
